All right, so
now we're gonna go from merge to rebase.
I know everyone's excited about rebase.
The thing about rebase is I am completely
convinced people don't like rebase because
A, they heard on Twitter that it's bad.
B, they used rebase that one time,
screwed it all up, and now they hate it.
And it's ruined their life,
therefore rebase bad.
It's not bad.
It's actually fantastic.
Rebase is just yet another tool in your
git Bat belt to be able to manipulate and
use your repo effectively.
There's actually a really good
reason why you should use rebase.
We'll kinda get into it a little bit more.
So this is our current setup right now.
We have foo.
Which is BC, and we have trunk,
which is all the way up to Y at this
point because we have merged on bar.
So this should be your setup right now.
Now we can demonstrate the power of
rebase by updating where foo points to.
We're gonna create this
graph by using rebase.
This is what Rebase does is it allows you
to update underneath your set of changes.
This is very important because it
is rewriting history in some sense,
but it's allowing you to have
what is currently the reality,
then your changes as opposed to
your changes that are
tested against some previous
reality that's no longer true,
you can now have it properly in line and
then to be able to find out did
you actually write something
that's good or does it suck?
This also means when we decide
to merge foo onto trunk,
we can do a fast forward merge.
Cuz again, our best common ancestor
our merge base is the tip of trunk,
now that we rebased.
And this is typically why people really
like rebase is that allows no merge
commits.
And there's a good reason why
you don't want merge commits and
we'll cover a little bit later.
Alright, so
basic steps of what rebase does.
First thing rebase does Is that you
will first go git rebase target branch.
Second, what it's gonna do is it's gonna
actually check out the latest commit
on the target branch.
So you're no longer on your branch.
You actually switch branches
to the target branch.
Then it's gonna take the branch that
you were on, the current branch, and
play the commits one at a time Time
in order onto the target branch.
Then it will go back check
out your current branch and
update current branch to
point to that latest commit.
So therefore it actually just moves
your commit forward in time and
plays it one at a time.
So
that's how you got to think about merge.
It's a little bit, or rebase.
It's just a little bit different, but
it's very important to understand that cuz
down the line, rebase is going to cause
a lot of problems if you don't
know about that specific feature.
All right,
I want you to rebase foo with trunk.
Create a separate branch,
It's called foo-rebase-trunk.
And so you're going to do a,
you're going to literally do a git
rebase trunk on this branch.
So I'll do it myself too.
I'll check out foo.
And you can do a git log
if you're curious, right?
There you go.
A, B, C.
And so then I can do one on trunk.
A, B, or A, D, E, X, Y.
And then I can go git rebase.
Git checkout.
Almost messed that one up.
There we go.
We'll create the new branch,
foo-rebase-trunk.
And I'm going to go git rebase trunk.
All right, we've rebased.
So what happened?
Well, let's look at the log,
git log one line.
Look at what we see.
We see trunk, but we also see.
Our two commits that differed from trunk.
Now after Y,
we now have history that is linear.
So now you see that trunk, which.
Contained bar, as our last merge is
now the base for foo-rebase-trunk.
In other words,
foo is no longer diverging from trunk.
It's now literally walking
the history forward,
which means we can fast
forward merge if we want to.
So there are some pros.
Obviously, you get a clean
history with no merge commits.
So if you use git log to kinda look
through things if you wanna walk backwards
through changes,
there's just significantly less kind
of commits to have to go through.
The cons obviously,
are that it alters branch history.
And when you alter branch history, if you
have the same branch on another repo,
you then have a problem
because you have two branches,
named the same thing with
two different histories.
So this is.
Typically where you see that git push
force cuz you want to forcefully tell
the other repo, I know what foo has, and
my version of foo is more correct than
yours, so you need to update everything.
All right, some cautionary words, never
change the history of a public branch.
I believe Marc over there, Mr. CEO,
actually has done that once before and
it's a major pain it's a super
pain don't ever do that.
So typically, what you'll see is always
merge on public branches rebase on private
branches so you have some change, you
wanna make sure they actually work with
the latest part of whatever you're working
on, you can then rebase it forward,
run your tests, run whatever, everything
works if you have a conflict you have to
resolve it then That way you have your
private branch being altered in history,
but your public branch
never changes history.
The moment you do that,
it breaks everybody.
Everybody breaks the moment
you change public history.
So don't ever do that for any reason.
There's a lot more, but
we need some more foundational
knowledge before we go over it.
So we kinda have a nice little base here.
Now, you no branches Merging, rebase,
you kind of get how they work.
You understand how commits work.
You actually understand that it is
the storage point of the entire repo per
commit, but it's efficiently stored,
so it's not a waste of space.
This is also why whenever you're
downloading a Git repo that has a long
history, it takes a while because it's
literally downloading every single
Change possible cuz it needs to be able
to reconstruct the repo at any one time.
That's also why if you do a git clone and
use like depth one,
I believe is the proper option.
It will actually just come down
with only the last commit,
which will contain the entire repo.
That's how you get that
efficient checkout.